New theorems with pi-character (#1807)
pi-base/data: theorems/T000908.md

---
uid: T000908
if:
  and:
  - P000203: true
  - P000029: true
then:
  P000057: true
---

> Letting $x$ be the only point which is not isolated, $\{y\}$ is nonempty and open for every $y \neq x$. Since $\{\{y\}: y \neq x\}$ is a family of pairwise disjoint open sets, it is countable, so $X \setminus \{x\}$ and hence $X$ are countable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let $p$ be the unique non-isolated point.
By {P29}, $X$ has countably many isolated points.
Therefore $X\setminus\{p\}$ is countable, and so is $X$.
```
shorter, easier
